# CorruptionPrediction
Class Project - Prediction of corruption in WB contracts
By Carlos Grandet, Santiago Matallana and Hector Salvador

# MLearning_WB_project
Machine Learning for Public Policy (UChicago) - final project

This project provides a machine learning approach to labelling
the World Bank contracts that are more prone to corruption
and fraud. As a global institution, the World Bank awarded
close to 200,000 contracts in the past 12 years, but less than
2,000 were investigated on malpractices. Lack of resources
and personnel is likely a barrier preventing further audit-
ing and sanctioning, thus allowing for the opportunity of
many corrupt acts to go unnoticed. Thus, we aim to pro-
vide a model that allows the World Bank to be more effcient
in their contract investigation by maximizing their ability
to andd the high-valued contracts incurring in corruption or
fraud. We are proposing a supervised learning approach
based on contract features related to supplier, project, coun-
try of origin, procurement information and major sector. We
then train the data to and the best model that maximizes
precision at a top N-percentile and test it with a subsam-
ple of labelled contracts. Our results with the testing data
shows that our model has a precision of 50% on the top 20%
of our sample with a threshold of 95%. Finally, we run the
model with unlabelled data to provide a list to the World
Bank of which contracts to investigate.

## Steps
1) Use python feature_generation.py to add additional features to the data. Change "data/tothepipe.csv" and "data/tothepipe_II.csv" as 
input and output files.

2) Run code from the WB_delivery.ipynb notebook.

3) Output is generated by applying the proposed model to the contracts without any labels (e.g. no unsubstantiated, substantiated, or 
unfounded). Repeat the step of feature generation on such database, changing the "data/tothecheck.csv" names of input and output.
